When I was in the kindergarten
Near my home was a little garden.
I loved walk there with my mother
And look at a little yellow flower.
There was a big tree,
But I was only three.
Eugene Onegin by Alexander Pushkin 
  A Novel in Verse 
  Translated by JAMES E. FALEN 
 
 
  EUGENE ONEGIN 
 
  Petri de vanite il avait encore plus de cette espece 
d'orgueil qui fait avouer avec la meme indifference les 
bonnes comme les mauvaises actions, suite d'un 
sentiment de superiorite, peut-etre imaginaire. 
  Tire d'une lettre particuliere* 
  Dedication* 
  Not thinking of the proud world's pleasure, But 
cherishing your friendship's claim, I would have wished 
a finer treasure To pledge my token to your name- One 
worthy of your soul's perfection, The sacred dreams 
that fill your gaze, Your verse's limpid, live complexion, 
Your noble thoughts and simple ways. But let it be. 
Take this collection Of sundry chapters as my suit: Half 
humorous, half pessimistic, Blending the plain and 
idealistic- Amusement's yield, the careless fruit Of 
sleepless nights, light inspirations, Born of my green 
and withered years… The intellect's cold observations, 
The heart's reflections, writ in tears. 
 
To live he hurries and to feel makes haste. Prince 
Vjazemsky 
  'My uncle, man of firm convictions*… 
  By falling gravely ill, he's won 
  A due respect for his afflictions- 
  The only clever thing he's done. 
  May his example profit others; 
  But God, what deadly boredom, brothers, 
  To tend a sick man night and day, 
  Not daring once to steal away! 
  And, oh, how base to pamper grossly 
  And entertain the nearly dead, 
  To fluff the pillows for his head, 
  And pass him medicines morosely- 
  While thinking under every sigh: 
  The devil take you, Uncle. Die!' 
  Just so a youthful rake reflected, As through the dust 
by post he flew, By mighty Zeus's will elected Sole heir 
to all the kin he knew. Ludmila's and Ruslan's 
adherents!* Without a foreword's interference, May I 
present, as we set sail, The hero of my current tale: 
Onegin, my good friend and brother, Was born beside 
the Neva's span, Where maybe, reader, you began, Or 
sparkled in one way or other. I too there used to 
saunter forth, But found it noxious in the north.* 
  An honest man who'd served sincerely, 
  His father ran up debts galore; 
  He gave a ball some three times yearly, 
  Until he had no means for more.